Overview of Project: The purpose of this project was to visualize and figure out trends based on certain categories of data in the Kickstarter data set. The first set of data we visualized was the number of successful, failed and canceled outcomes vs the month that the campaign launched. We did this visualization by creating a line graph while filtering the data for just the parent category theater. Hence why the name of the analysis is “Theater Outcomes based on Launch Date.” The second set of data we visualized was the percentage of successful, failed, and canceled outcomes vs the goal number for the Kickstarter campaign. We did this by segmenting the goal number in increments of 5000 from less than 1000 all the way up to more than 50000 and creating a line graph where the x-axis is those goal segments. The name of this analysis is “Outcomes based on Goal.”
Analysis Theater Outcomes based on Launch Date: The way I performed this analysis was by selecting all the data in the Kickstarter sheet and creating a pivot table where I could input the categories. I started by inputting the Parent Category and Years into the filters field in the pivot table. I proceeded by dragging the outcomes field into the Legend and Values fields in the pivot table. I then dragged the Date Created Conversion field into the Axis. I then right clicked on one of the fields in the graph and changed the analysis from “quarters”, “years”, and “months” to just months and this categorized the data into outcomes by month. I then filtered the Parent Category by just Theater and created a line graph where months were shown on the x-axis and outcomes were shown on the y-axis. A big challenge I had was segmenting the data by month and the way I overcame that challenge was by googling how to group data by month in a pivot table
 
Analysis Outcomes based on Goals: The way I performed this analysis was by creating 8 columns and 12 rows for data. The columns were labelled Number Successful, number failed, number canceled, total projects, percent successful, percent failed, and percent cancelled. The rows were Less than 1000, 1000 to 4999, 5000 to 9999, and using increments like that all the way up to 500000 or more. The way I started this analysis was by using a =countifs() function in number successful and highlighting the goals column in the Kickstarter sheet setting the criteria as “less than 1000,” then highlighting the outcomes column and setting the criteria as successful, and last highlighting the subcategory column and setting the criteria as “Plays.” I then went down one row and set the goals column as in between 1000 and 4999. I did this for all the rows for Number successful. I used the same function for number failed and canceled but instead of setting the second criteria as “successful” I set it as “Failed for the failed column and “canceled” for the canceled column. I then added all three columns up to get the total projects for each row and found the percentage for “successful” “Failed” and “canceled” by dividing each by the total projects number. I then created a line graph where the goal number was the x-axis and the percent of successful failed and canceled were the y-axis with each representing a line. A challenge that I encountered in performing this analysis was using the =countifs() function for setting the parameters was difficult. I counteracted this by looking up how to use the function with using outcome parameters.
 
Results: The result of the Theater Outcomes Based on Launch Date data is that the data is clean and segmented into a line graph that is easily described. One conclusion that I may draw from this data is the fact that successful outcomes for the theater Parent Category are much more prevalent no matter which month it is than failed or canceled outcomes except for the month of December where the amount of successful and failed theater outcomes were about the same (37 successful and 35 failed). Another conclusion I may be able to make from the data is that there are more theater outcomes in the spring months (April, May, June) than any other month. This may indicate that more fundraisers for the theater Parent Category take place during the spring. The result of the Outcomes Based on Goals data is like the first set of data, it is clean and easily described to someone unfamiliar with the data. A conclusion that I may be able to draw from this data is that there are many more campaigns with goals less than $4,999 than campaigns with goals greater than 5000. I may be able to draw this conclusion from the fact that there are 720 projects with goals less than $4,999 and there are 327 projects with goals greater than $5,000.
There are few but limitations nevertheless of both datasets. A limitation of the Theater Outcome by Launch Date data set is the fact that it is only filtered with one Parent Category. There are various Parent Categories to choose from, which for the most part have more eclectic outcomes than the Theater Category. For example, the technology Parent Category has many different outcomes than the Theater Parent Category. A limitation of the Outcomes Based on Goals data set is the fact that it is filtered by the subcategory plays rather than a different subcategory. This leads to similar limitations that the first dataset has.
Another table or graph that could possibly be created from the data set would be a bar graph for the outcomes based on goals data set where the x-axis is the same thing as the line graph for this data set, the ranges for goals, while the y-axis could be the number of successful, failed and canceled rather than the percentage of that.
